# **IslamQA : Directing you to the correct Answer**

## **Project Members** :

Mohammed Abdul Khaliq

Ufkun-Bayram Menderes

Murshed Alam Nahid

## Status of Project

- [x] Collect data from website.
   
- [x] Parse data into XML Format.
      
- [x] Upload data into eXist-db database.
      
- [x] Collect statistics using XPath.
      
- [x] Implement XQuery code for Boolean Union Retrieval.
      
- [x] Use GET Requests to gather XML data in python and compute cosine similarity.
      
- [ ] Implement website for Statistics, Booleand and Cosine Similarity.
      
- [ ] OpenAI embeddings for semantic search.
      
- [ ] Set of easy-hard questions to test search capability.

## **Motivation**:
The project aims to develop an advanced search engine in the field of religion that utilizes personal experiences, seeking to provide more personalized, relevant, and intuitive search results, thereby enhancing user interaction and personalization of digital information.



## Setup the database


### 1. eXist-DB database setup

Steps:
1. Download eXist-db by following the instructions at <a href='https://exist-db.org/exist/apps/doc/basic-installation'>eXist-db Installation Guide</a>

2. Start the eXist-db server and 'Open Dashboard'. Select ```eXide - XQuery IDE```.
   
3. Create a "New" file of type XML and upload the dataset present at ```/dataset/islamqa_10thousand_500.xml``` and store it at an appropriate eXist-db path.
   
4. Create a "New" file of type XQuery and upload the file present at ```/xquery/html_query_simple.xq``` and store it at the same location as the dataset inside eXist-db.
   
## Querying the results
Make sure the eXist-db server is still running for both these cases.

### 1. Basic Boolean Search
Steps:
1. Inside the ```eXide - XQuery IDE``` open the ```html_query_simple.xq``` file and change the line 9 ```$doc``` variable to pint to the location of the dataset within eXist-db.

2. Click ```Save``` and then ```Eval``` and ```Run```.

3. Type in any query terms in the search bar and retrieve the results pertaining to the search (the search is case sensitive for now).

### 2. Advanced Cosine Similarity Search
1. Install the required libraries :
```
pip3 install requirements.txt
```
2. Head into the app.py file and at line 15, change the path to point to the path of your eXist-db dataset.
```
response = requests.get('http://localhost:8080/exist/rest/<path to your database within eXist-db>')
```
3. Run the app.py file
```
python3 app.py
```
4. Enter your query in the search bar and view the results generated by the cosine similarity function.


